Welcome to Slash Forward. In this episode, we’re
going to get just a little bit closer to the end
of the franchise storyline with Saw 6, working
our way through the traps as we go. If you’ve
done the math, you’ll recognize hitting the like
button to be the correct moral action. To start,
I’ll unpack the storyline to see
what we can learn. Let’s get to it.
We open on a young woman, tickled awake
by a playful cockroach. She stands up
and pulls a tripwire, then realizes she’s
adjacent to her pal Eddie. Simone tries to
warn him not to lean forward, but Eddie’s a
legit dum dum. With both of them activated,
they trigger Billy’s entrance, at
which point he explains to these
payday loan sharks that it’s now their
turn to turn in their pound of flesh.
They are in a competition to load as much
of their soft tissues into the trays before
them as possible before time runs out. The
loser gets a pretty sweet skull piercing as
a consolation, and then the bolts dig in
a little, just to make it real for them.
Eddie has a thirst for life, and is real quick
to start cutting some bacon off his belly,
but Simone’s all trim and fit, oh no. So instead,
she focuses on density and ponders a
contribution of pure lean body mass. However,
growing desperate when she gets stuck
on the bone and seeing his scale moving,
she cleaves that sucker right off. This tips the
scale at the last moment, winning her the game.
We then come in on the end of the last movie,
and watch Hoffman dust himself off as he circles
around to reset and tidy up his kill room. Just
in case he has a need for it in the future.
After that we meet up with William the doucher,
cancelling birthday plans with his family so he
can have a drink with Debbie, his lead council.
They have to review his deposition strats for
the case of Mr. Abbott’s policy cancellation,
and practice their David Caruso impressions
We see via flashback that William related
an oral surgery thirty years prior to Mr.
Abbott’s current heart disease, using this
undisclosed prior condition as a justification
for ending his policy. He didn’t take it well.
As Will nails his answers with ease, he clarifies
for Debbie - our stand in - that the dog
pit identified this discrepancy for him,
because they’re all over it. They love
cutting policies and playing hard as hell.
Meanwhile, Hoffman arrives at the most recent
crime scene where the feds are already in charge.
Turns out, there were some prints
retrieved that match agent Strahm,
a disappointing shock to them all. Confident in
their suspect, Erickson then reveals his secret
weapon - a still alive agent Perez. We find
out that she and Strahm had been investigating
the building fire from the last film, but
had to cut it loose when their witness,
Mallick the tweaker, went missing.
Hoffman is sour about this deceit,
but they all make a pact to hold no more
secrets. The basis of any good friendship.
When Hoffman returns, he finds journo Jenkins
looking for a statement. She wants a lead,
and she’s looking for a juicer,
admitting that she’s aware of the box
that Jill Tuck recently inherited. She
offers to dial back her sensationalist
rhetoric if he can get her close to Jill.
We then learn, through Hoffman
interviewing the most recent victim
there is still some confusion about duress.
Also, that Simone has declined to learn
anything about her ordeal, an unfortunate,
missed opportunity for personal growth.
Circling back with Jill, then , we see her having
a wine and ultrasound party. She giggles about it
to herself, and then returns to her precious box,
embracing her inherited folders in rapturous joy.
When Pam Jenkins calls to request a meet up,
we learn that she’s actually folio number two.
Hoffman has another flashback, this one as a
reminder that everyone is to be tested, and then
he learns that the federalis know the jigsaw piece
cut from Eddie was not made with the same knife as
any of the other victims other than Seth Baxter,
Hoffman’s sister’s killer. So, they’re also
looking deeper into the associated tapes to verify
if they reveal different voices at their core.
Feeling the pressure now, he goes to meet up
with Jill at the clinic to announce that the game
begins tonight, and he’s going to retain total
control. He demands the envelopes, which she had
conveniently forwarded to her office, apparently,
and then lets her know that when he’s done,
they’re done. Then we get more insight
into Jill’s more recent willingness to
be involved to some degree. Her
motivations are driven by her
failure to see true rehabilitation at her
clinics. The drugsters always come back.
Except Amanda. She’s cleaned up her act
and is proof of concept for John’s method.
We then check back in with old poopface Will,
taking in some news which gives him a lot
to chew on. But then the lights go out and,
seeing a shrouded figure approaching with
a gun, he adopts a shoot first approach,
resulting in a terrible mistake that he
does not have enough time to try to fix.
He wakes up at an oxygen bar, sucking on that
mango pineapple O2. He gets a personal message
from John that says hey, thanks, for giving me
a chance to learn how to live through dying.
William has sixty minutes to pass four
tests or the explosives on his arms
and legs will do what they do. Luckily
he’ll be provided motivation to proceed,
unluckily it comes in the form
of his incarcerated family.
His first test is easy, though. He just
has to be able to hold his breath longer
than this lifelong smoker, because every
time they move the accordion, their torso
compressor closes in a little. They each hold
their breath real hard but, try as they might,
they just can’t go an hour without breathing.
Of course, Will’s got a pair of swimmers on him,
so he wins the chance to watch his partner
get squeezed like a ketchup packet while he is
released from the trap. Once out, he recognizes
there is a foreign object inside his body,
but also is able to grab a key to release one
of his wrist bombs on his way out the door.
With a moment to breathe now, we see the
mother/son duo are in a cell with a huge tank of
hydroflouric acid attached to a sprinkler system
and a lever that’s just begging to be pulled.
Meanwhile, uptown, Ms. Jenkins arrives at Jill’s
apartment to show her a document she found.
She asks her to take a look at it and give her
a call if it means anything to her. This is
also where she gets snatched, and this is
where Hoffman keeps his special pictures.
Back in the maze, William thinks back fondly
on his first meeting with John, who critiques
his underwriting formula for failing to consider
the human will to live *until faced with death*
we are talking about medical
conditions, correct? Coming out of this,
Bill finds his next test - he’s forced
to take up the pillars of Hercules,
and then funhouse Billy drops in to point
out his policy would value this young,
childless clerk over his older, child-bearing
assistant. Now he gets to see what it’s like
to make a direct choice. Failure to do
so will result in both their deaths.
As their chains are reeled in, he weighs
his options and makes a wise choice.
In response to her gratitude, he offers
some kind words and then leaves Addy to
disentangle her own barbed-wire noose so
he can focus on getting his hands free.
Elsewhere in the facility we
see that Jenkins has her own
cell full of acid. She wakes
up and also has her own tape,
which lets her know she’s here due to
exploiting John’s pure message of redemption.
Jill finds herself at the hospital
with a look of steely determination.
As she walks the hall she flashes back to the rack
where John and Hoffman have a mild disagreement
about how to treat the victims, and there is
a little bit of disciple jealousy as well.
Jill met him here to ask him to stop. Instead,
he just assures her he’ll provide her a way out
when it’s all done and gives her a key to the
box. She then drops the parcel and moves along.
Back at the maze, William appears to
have fallen asleep, and is searching for
Freddy Kreuger. This is the perfect time for an
inception back to a prior memory of when John
pitched an experimental therapy he wanted
to get in on. Not only did William deny it,
but if John did it on his own, he was going
to cancel the whole policy on his ass. This
was a very eye-opening meeting about culpability.
When he comes to, he’s arrived at the next test.
Debbie has a brain-piercing device strapped to her
torso, rather than her head, and she has
to make it across a catwalk to the finish.
William is meant to help her through and
be there at the end to assist with the key.
She works her way along, occasionally
needing to take turns getting straight
blasted in the face with some steam. And she
makes it across, where it’s revealed that the
key to her salvation has been inside him the
whole time. She attempts to extract it with
overhead chops from a circular saw. She
must’ve forgotten how he helped with the steam,
so he thrashes her soundly, and her
device goes off, effectively removing
her impulse control. Completely. For
Will, it’s just on to the next one.
Hoffman then gets interrupted from his evening
plans with a request to meet up about the Seth
Baxter tape. When he arrives at HQ, it’s revealed
that they found some inconsistencies with Strahm’s
fingerprints, indicating they were not
made with a living hand. The tape they
discussed is being analyzed, but it’s off site,
so they head out together to check the results.
Meanwhile, William gets to a door and hears his
crew screaming for help inside. When he enters,
he finds them playing hard, natch, but
they’re sad despite twirling upon the
best playground ride available. Then Billy
pops in to say what’s up. We learn the dog
pound here will spin around and get blasted
by a shotgun. He can only save two of them.
He has barely a moment to think his way through
when the first victim gets racked up and,
just to show it’s for real, blasted in the chest.
When a young mother eases in, he makes his first
selection. But this sets the rest of them to lying
about whatever they can think of to convince him
they’re worthy, while also calling each other
out. This influx of information overwhelms him,
condemning some of them to death. He snaps out
of it to make his second selection, which is not
the final person, so he’s forced to listen as his
employee maligns him while he aligns with the gun.
At that time, Hoffman and the others arrive
at the audio shack where the expert toils
away in a dark closet. She’s right on the verge of
breaking the algorithm to reveal the true voice.
As the pressure rises, Perez starts questioning
Strahm’s motivations. Despite the fact that we
get a strong sense they suspect Hoffman, they are
taken completely unawares when his voice pops up.
He turns on them and only Perez gets off
shots, but it’s directly into her co-worker.
Once he gets her against the wall, he insists on
knowing who else knows before running to his trunk
to get his finger-printing device. He tosses a few
around before dousing the room and firing it up.
Jill arrives at the command post and sets up a
special document for Hoffman to find. While in
the cell, Brent decides he’s a man of action and
goes for the lever. However, he does seek his
mommy’s permission first. He switches it to live
and nothing happens, so he flips it a bunch and
leaves it on die. His mom has a lightbulb moment,
though, and sets it back to neutral, just in case.
At that time, William is searching for the exit
and Hoffman returns. When he does, he finds the
paper. We find out this is a note that he wrote
to Amanda. She had been with Cecil on that fateful
night, and was the one to entice him to do the
job. Hoffman held this over her, compelling
her to kill Lynn to prevent him from spilling
the beans. Jill then waltzes in to reveal that
Hoffman is sitting on an electrified chair. From
this we learn that the mysterious box we can’t
stop thinking about contained a bear trap for
Hoffman, because all will be tested in the end.
As she works on this, William rushes through
the final door with only a moment to spare.
Then the walls pull back and we learn that his
only family is actually his sister Pam Jenkins.
The other pair are Mr. Abbott’s widow and son.
John then comes on to reveal that the game has
shifted and William’s final judgement is to come
from them. Tara gets all high and mighty about
her duty to prevent future deaths by killing
him, but still can’t bring herself to do it.
Although, her speech charged up Brent who pulls
the lever, swinging down a giant grid of large
gauge syringes that fill William with the
acid they’ve been staring at this whole time.
Jill starts Hoffman’s timer and heads out.
So, as William melts away from the inside,
Hoffman demonstrates his will to live
first by crushing his own hand to escape,
and then cramming his face into the window
bars to limit the traps capacity to open.
He’s then able to slip down and out of the head
gear and walk away with only minor injuries.
Well that was both pleasant and enjoyable.
It really makes me wonder what we’ll bear
witness to in the penultimate installment. But for
now, let’s focus ourselves on the task at hand,
by working through these traps. We’ve gone
back to simpler times now, and find ourselves
with a single trap participant working his way
through a variety of fairly locked down puzzles.
The difference here, obviously, is that it’s
not so much about ensuring your own survival
as it is trying to bring as many additional
survivors out with you as possible.
The movie opens with the flesh scale. If you
recall, Simone and Eddie had head devices with
tension bolts applied to their temples. Whoever
lost the challenge, as determined by the scale,
would get a full insertion resulting in
a permanent headache. This trap gives us
very little to go on, focusing on the
character’s decision and will to win.
We don’t get to see much about how this
headgear is attached or what their surroundings
consist of. Although, I’m not sure searching
surroundings would be particularly effective,
because they had a very tight timer on this one.
I had several thoughts about this puzzle
that mostly hinge around winning rather
than ensuring mutual survival. To that end, I
did wonder if it might be possible to work the
flat portions of the two larger bladed
items between the bolt and your skin,
thus distributing the force across a larger
area. If the bolts decided to go for a drive,
your survival would come down to which gives
out first - the strength of the headgear and
its various attachment points and joints,
or the structural integrity of your skull.
Outside of that, I think this one comes down more
to psychological warfare. It would behoove you,
especially if you saw your competition going
to town on their flanks, to play it up like
you didn’t have what it takes to strip
your flesh. Give them the idea that maybe
they’re in for an easy win to slow them down
a bit. Simone’s area seemed to be fairly open,
and there is a corner back here that has some
stuff behind it. If there is anything there
that could reach down the tubes to push the tray,
she could hold it down and score an easy victory.
There didn’t seem to be any limited range of
motion for the victims, the trap just tries to
keep them confined to the table by locking down
the tools. However, while the tools are chained,
those chains appear to be attached to
wood. It seems like your next best bet,
after convincing your opponent you’re falling
apart mentally, would be to try to keep your
back to them and use the cleaver to chunk out
wedges of the wood until you could wrench some
of the tools free. Let your partner load up their
scale like they’re at a keto farmer’s market,
and then turn at the last moment to load your
side up with a bunch of metal implements.
We then move into William’s trials. Broadly
speaking, he has sixty minutes to complete
his four tests. The problem is that most of these
tests do require someone to die, but I think there
are a few opportunities contained throughout. When
he first wakes up, he finds himself in the oxygen
exam. What we come to learn is that breathing
in causes the device to crush them little by
little until they die. It’s not clear exactly what
kind of breathing device they have on them here.
The accordion portion seems to go up pretty
dramatically even when William was breathing
normally while unconscious. If it’s a life
support-style device, any inhalation will likely
result in it pushing air into you, meaning that
sensor is going to get tripped no matter what.
This is important, because my first thought was
what if they just take shallow breaths to avoid
moving the sensor? The problem, though, is
that there is no time limit here. If one of
them doesn’t die, releasing the other, the global
timer will run out and William will die along with
his family. So, there really is no choice here
but to compete to win and, based on their mutual
efforts to try to bypass this, it seems you’re
likely to beat this other guy no matter what.
This quickly turns into a trap where it would be
ideal to try to put it behind you and move on.
He then enters an area where he has
some time to scavenge for useful items.
Just right off here I see some useful rocks, and
potentially useful shards of glass for cutting.
There is also tubing hanging down and all sorts
of other things. Who knows what other strange
and useful items may be contained inside
these display stages. It should also be
noted that the keys to his extremity bombs
are just hanging from strings beyond each
task. Any puzzle that doesn’t require him
to be locked down or imperiled in some way
could be skippable. However, they cover this
with a simple red light, implying there is some
sort of proximity sensor connecting each
bomb with the trap that comes before it.
This is actually very useful, because while
it’s intended to keep him in the general area
of the test, it doesn’t specifically drive
him to start it at any particular time.
In the case of the iron cross here, he is again
forced to let someone die with rules set up that
preclude him from saving them both via the game.
Either they both die, or he can save one. However,
just because he can’t move past doesn’t mean
he has to pick up the handles right away.
In this instance a strong case could be made
for taking rock to glass. Once inside, you could
unwrap their necklaces to prevent further injury.
You could even then go through with the process
of the game to register your choice and make it
easier to ensure your ability to get the next key.
Next up is the stomach piercer, which is a
confusing name, because it’s intended to shred
your frontal lobe. Nonetheless, they went with a
torso attachment. I immediately identified that
you could just angle your body and head in such a
way to avoid full penetration, and was vindicated
when they let slip a couple of frames that
reveal just that. Because I was looking for it,
it was clear they tried to shoot around this and
make sure Debbie never moved her body in such
a way that made it apparent. However, they tried
to jam me up at the end by having the contraption
do a little readjustment of its position prior to
delivering its load. I’m not sure this is the most
efficient way to take out a person’s brain, but I
understand the desire to introduce variety here.
Regardless, while it still may be possible to
shuck and jive your way out of this, there is
also just the raw power of teamwork as an option.
There’s a lot of tools inside the finishing area,
many of which may have been a possibility for
opening up William’s wound to retrieve the key,
but also he could have held onto a shard of
glass from the previous area as mentioned.
With all the steam and heat, it seems like
they could have created a fairly safe and
sterile surgical environment, and possibly even
had access to blood flow-stemming cauterization
afterward. If Debbie could just refrain from
acting like an ass for a few seconds here.
Before finishing with Hoffman’s trials, we’ll
take a brief moment to note the absurdity of
Tara’s test here. The end result feels a bit
tacked on, and I’m not entirely sure what it’s
supposed to prove or why it’s happening.
She recognizes this is her test, but why
is she being tested? She is a victim of William
trying to raise her snotty son as a single mom.
Is she not paragliding on the weekends enough to
demonstrate she’s got life by the balls? And also,
what is the consequence here? It’s not
stated. He tells her only to pick live or
die for William, there are no other rules
or requirements. There is no time limit,
and there is no other challenge. It’s not clear
why she has to pick live rather than do nothing,
or what would happen if she leaves it on neutral.
Perhaps it sprinkles the acid in their cell or in
Pam’s cell? But these potential twists are
never stated. It makes me wonder if we have
some important scenes on the cutting room floor
that would have elucidated the point of all this.
Which is too bad because, without them,
this isn’t really a challenge at all.
Finally we’ll talk about the two primary
challenges faced by Hoffman. The first is the kill
room where he managed to take out multiple, armed
FBI agents with a knife. Now, if you’re Hoffman,
you did well, but we’re going to examine
how lucky he got in the way this unfolded.
First off, as I said in the summarization, the
agents were letting on like they had an idea
Hoffman was involved here. I’m not sure why they
wouldn’t have been watching him more closely.
Erickson pulls back his jacket and, as experienced
G-persons, both of them should have their right
hands open and available for their weapon. This
is drilled into them in training and becomes a
lifelong habit for law enforcement. But, if they
did it because they were preparing themselves,
they negated their ability to act by then
also lining themselves up with Hoffman in
the middle. This is a recipe for disaster,
because it puts you in a crossfire situation.
Of course, this didn’t stop Perez from putting
three rounds into the center mass of her desk
jockey friend here, so I’m not really sure
where her mind was at. I think the coffee
to the face was overplayed a bit. When
small droplets of liquid hit open air,
they transfer their heat energy
fairly rapidly. He’s picking up an
evening pot of stale ass coffee and tossing it
across the room. The result was probably more
startling than painful, but I would expect
a trained agent to be prepared for this.
Further, jamming a screwdriver into the power
strip would not have the desired outcome,
so they would have had full vision. If you arc a
piece of conductive material between the two ports
of an outlet, you can get it to pop and possibly
burn out. A single port shouldn’t be a problem,
but even if it is, this is a power strip.
It likely has built in surge protection,
and it’s a separate unit plugged into an
actual wall outlet. It seems unlikely that
it would trip the breaker for the entire room,
or that the entire room is on a single breaker.
If agent Perez was suspicious, which the movie
led us to believe, her best position would be
to listen from the computer station, to the
left of the audio expert. This would have put
her and Erickson at angles in front of Hoffman,
allowing either of them to draw down on him with
no targets of concern downrange while still being
able to listen and watch him at the same time.
Last up is the bear trap. Here is another one that
Hoffman successfully navigated, so I’m not sure we
could find a better outcome. Hoffman got out of
the chair, and he cranked on it with some tools.
Were better tools available for the job? Possibly,
but we didn’t get to see what all was there, and
this was his workshop. So, if he had a C-clamp or
some vice grips or something like that, presumably
he would be the one to know and employ them. The
bar trick is actually a pretty slick move here,
and likely only possible because this
was a trap that didn’t have its own,
purpose-built room in which it unfolded. But,
then again, this wasn’t really a “test” in the
traditional sense, because there was no
key to recover once the test was passed.
I do wonder, after the trap was sprung, could
he not have just left it between the bars,
or reclosed it manually? The trap is set by
human hands so it seems like it could be.
It also raises some odd questions here about
the viability of some of the other set ups
in that he was able to just slide his head out
of it despite how low it rested on the back.
Pulling down hard will now be a
reasonable last resort moving forward.
Here is another installment where the average
person would come out looking pretty good.
There is going to be pain, but the
challenges are mostly emotional,
requiring the participant to choose who to save
while watching others die, rather than putting the
participant in actual mortal danger. As a result,
I would have to say that you would survive,
but the degree to which you would be “okay”
is really dependent on how effectively you
could compartmentalize your actions from their
consequences. Just remember that I believe in you.
Before we go, I’d like to give a huge thanks to
my donors, memorialized in the hall of headshots.
As an FYI, I have a website set up where you
can support the channel through donations or
merch. Any donation unlocks uncensored movie
reviews of Lifeforce and Under the Skin,
with others to be added over
time. If you enjoyed the video,
I’d love for you to become a part of the
channel by subscribing. Thanks for watching.